---
layout: essay
type: essay
title: EI UI Basics Technology Essay
date: 2020-02-01
labels:
---
From what I remember, BrowserHistory1 was very a interesting assignment but at the same time a challenge for me to do. When I first glanced at the instrutions for the assignment, I was completely lost and I was glad there was an tutorial video for me to watch and learn how to do BrowserHistory1. After watching the screencast video, I felt comfortable and I had a little bit of confidence to do the assignment and record myself do BrowserHistory1. Soon I realized that I had no idea what I was saying and what I was doing when I started my first recording for the assignment. I would get lost in what I was doing and in what I was saying in my screen recording. I then decided to go a different route because just watching the screencast tutorial video was not enough for me. I decided to follow the instructions on the ITM website instead of watching the screencast and follow step by step. I also decided to take notes on the instructions for the assignment and on the screencast video. I would note what I had to follow and do on the instructions and when I had problems in how to do so, I would refer back to the screencast to see how it is done. Overall, it took me about an hour and a half to do my second recording and this time, I felt more confident in what I was saying and in what I was doing. So I started the screenrecording, the timer, and I had my notes right next to me for when I get lost. My second attempt was good and I finished below 20 minutes so I felt confident in doing the other BrowserHistory assignments. From this experience, I learned that just watching the tutorial video will not help me in the long run. I had to read, understand, and learn the instructions before watching the video and that was one thing I did not do in my first attempt. I went straight for the video and I relied on it to help me. In just watching the video, I would follow step by step but I had nothing to say for it. I had no explanation for what I was doing and why I was doing that step. Overall, BrowserHistory1 was a good stepping stone for me to learn from my mistakes and not to always rely on tutorial videos. 

My advise for doing WOD's is to follow the instructions and practice doing the assignment without watching the screencast video. Practice with a timer and even though you do not finish on time, see what step you focused your most time on and watch the screencast to see how that person did the step. Another advise I would give is to take notes! There is a good chance that you will forget where you are, what code you have to put in, and sometimes forget how to do the step. I suggest taking notes on the steps you have to follow and on the screencast video to see how that person did it. Overall BrowserHistory1 was a good stepping stone assignment and it has helped me complete my other BrowserHistory assignments for the week. 
